
JavaScript is a single-threaded,
	non-blocking, 
	asynchronous,
	concurrent
	programming language with lots of flexibility



### Synchronous 

So what happens when you define a function and then invoke it? The JavaScript engine maintains a `stack` data structure called `call stack`. The purpose of the stack is to track the current function in execution. It does the following:

- When the JavaScript engine invokes a function, it adds it to the stack, and the execution starts.
- If the currently executed function calls another function, the engine adds the second function to the stack and starts executing it.
- Once it finishes executing the second function, the engine takes it out from the stack.
- The control goes back to resume the execution of the first function from the point it left it last time.
- Once the execution of the first function is over, the engine takes it out of the stack.
- Continue the same way until there is nothing to put into the stack.

By default the call stack holds the global scope.

Each time a function is invoked, its pushed onto the call stack and popped from the call stack when it concludes.

This is the was JS works its synchronous operation.  

### Asynchronous

We can classify most asynchronous JavaScript operations with two primary triggers:

1. **Browser API/Web API** events or functions. These include methods like `setTimeout`, or event handlers like click, mouse over, scroll, and many more.
2. **Promises**. A unique JavaScript object that allows us to perform asynchronous operations.


#### API

Browser APIs like `setTimeout` and event handlers rely on `callback` functions. A callback function executes when an asynchronous operation completes. Here is an example of how a `setTimeout` function works:


```js
function printMe() {
  console.log('print me');
}

setTimeout(printMe, 2000);
```

It waits 2 seconds before executing `setTimeout()`
This operation is asynchronous.


```js
function printMe() {
  console.log('print me');
}

function test() {
  console.log('test');
}

setTimeout(printMe, 2000);
test();
```

The output for this is,
test
print me

This due to the fact that the main thread maintained by JS, gives priority to synch operations.
Essentially 
- `printMe()` is pushed onto the call stack.
- since its an asynch operation it is popped and sent to a worker thread, separate from the main thread, so the main thread isnt blocked. There its time is elapsed.
- Meanwhile `test()` is pushed onto the call stack and it prints "test"
- By then if `printMe()` gets free, it waits in a queue. And until the call stack is empty, it keeps waiting for its turn. When it is free, `printMe()` sends its result to the call stack and is executed.

Which is why the output is in that order.

The queue holding the asynch operations is called the `Call Back Queue`
The engine has a loop which keeps checking whether the `call stack` is free to pop the `call back queue`. This loop is called the `Event Loop`



```js
function f1() {  
    console.log('f1');  
}  
  
function f2() {  
    console.log('f2');  
}  
  
function main() {  
    console.log('main');  
  
    setTimeout(f1, 0);  
  
    f2();  
}  
  
main();
```
Output:

main
f2
f1

This way of working allows us to achieve `Concurrency`

