
Simply speaking “this” is the **reference to the object that is executing the current function**.
But what the current object is, changes depending on where this is being used.

The value of this will depend on where the function is called on run-time which you’ll call the **“call-site”** in technical terms.

In JavaScript, the this keyword refers to the object that is currently executing the code. The short version of what this evaluates to is as follows:

    By default, this refers to the global object.
    In a function, when not in strict mode, this refers to the global object.
    In a function, when in strict mode, this is undefined.
    In an arrow function, this retains the value of the enclosing lexical context's this.
    In an object method, this refers to the object the method was called on.
    In a constructor call, this is bound to the new object being constructed.
    In an event handler, this is bound to the element on which the listener is placed.

**NOTE:**

In arrow functions, this points to the thing its enclosed in.
```js
const f = () => this;

console.log(f() === window); // true

const obj = {
  foo: function() {
    const baz = () => this;
    return baz();
  },
  bar: () => this
};

console.log(obj.foo()); // { foo, bar }
console.log(obj.bar() === window); // true
```

- the first f is 'enclosed' in global, so it points to the window
- baz is enclosed in the function foo, so it points to obj, therefore foo and bar
- bar is enclosed in obj, so it points to global, therefore window

-----------------


There are 4 simple rules that describe how “this” works

1. Default binding
2. Implicit binding
3. Explicit binding
4. “new” operator


## 1. Default Binding

```js
function doSomething(){  
  console.log(this.a);  
}
var a = 6;
doSomething(); //6
```

by default the global execution context is on top of the stack. When we call something, its execution context will be pushed and will be on top of the stack. Since this function belongs to the global object the value of this will be the global object.

On node global this refers to, {}
On browser its a window object.


## 2. Implicit Binding

```js
function doSomething(){  
  console.log(this.a);  
}

var a = 6;  
var obj = {  
  a : 12,  
  doSomething: doSomething  
};
obj.doSomething(); //12
```

In this case, we called doSomething with prefix (“obj.”). 
Calling the function in this way will set the value of “this” in the function’s execution context as “obj” (a reference to the object obj). 
obj has property “a” and so the value printed will be 12. Prefixing the function call with an object reference is an example of **“implicit binding”**. You are implicitly calling a function of an object.


## 3. Explicit Binding

Call, Apply and Bind

**Call and Apply immediately call the function** with given “context” and arguments. While **bind returns a function** with the context(this) set that can’t be changed.



```js
function foo() { 
  console.log(this.key);
}

var objA = { key : "A" };
var objB = { key : "B" };
foo.call(objA) // A
foo.call(objB) // B// Apply works the same way , there is a small difference between  // call and apply on format of arguments passed to it

var bindedFoo = foo.bind(objA);bindedFoo(); // A;
var doubleBindedFoo = bindedFoo.bind(objB);
doubleBindedFoo() // A (Once binded the value of this can't be changed)
```

## 4. New Operator

Using **“new”** keyword in front of any function makes it a constructor fn. But what does the “new” keyword do.

In case a construction function don’t return an object the “new” keyword will create a brand new object and return it. 
But where does “this” comes into picture ? It turns out when you call a function with “new” keyword . **JS creates a new object in background and passes reference of newly created object to the function , thus making this new object “this” .**

```js
function Name(fname, lName) {    
   this.fname = fname;   
   this.lName = lName;    
}
var newObj = new Name("jainish", "shah");  
console.log( newObj.fname + "  " + newObj.lname); // "jainish shah"
```


