

### While loop


```js
while (condition) {  
  statement  
}
```
Before the statement is executed, `condition` is tested.


### For loop

```js
for (initialExpression; conditionExpression; incrementExpression) {  
 statement  
}
```

The `initialExpression` is the first thing that runs. Any variable created in this expression is _scoped_ to the loop (meaning that you cannot refer to this variable from outside of the loop). The `initialExpression` is usually where a counter is initialized.

The `conditionExpression` is then evaluated for being either `true` or `false`.

The `incrementExpression` runs _after_ the statement executes. Just as the `initialExpression` usually initializes a counter in a `for` loop, the `incrementExpression` usually increments/decrement that counter.

```js
for (let i = 1; i <= 5; i++) {  
 console.log(“I can count to “ + i)  
}
```



### Do While loop

```js
do {  
  statement  
} while (condition);
```

The first thing that happens in this loop is the statement is executed. Once that happens, `condition` is checked.

```js
let booksRead = 10;  

do {  
 console.log(`I read ${booksRead} books this year`);  
 booksRead++;  
} while (booksRead < 14);
```


### For in loop

```js
for (variable in object) {  
 statement  
}
```

A `for…in` loop iterates a variable over each property (or key) of an object. For each property, the statement is executed.

It is best **not to add, modify, or remove properties** from the object during iteration, other than the property currently being visited”. You also should **not use for…in loops with arrays**.


```js
const foodIAte = {  
 breakfast: ‘eggs’,  
 lunch: ‘salad’,  
 dinner: ‘pizza’  
};

for(const meal in foodIAte) {  
 console.log(`For ${meal}, I ate ${foodIAte[meal]}.`);  
};
```


### For of loop

```js
for (variable of iterableObject) {  
 statement  
}
```

The `for…of` loop can be used with _iterable objects_, which includes arrays, maps, sets, strings etc.

The `for…of` loop iterates over `iterableObject`, and a statement is executed for the value of each property in `iterableObject`. While `for…in` loops iterate over the property _name_, `for…of` loops iterate over the property _value_.

```js
const array = [5, 10, 15];  
for (const value of array) {  
 console.log(value);  
}
```